VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) - Taxation and Customs Union
Skip to main content
en
Select your language
Close
EU official languages
bg български
es español
cs čeština
da dansk
de Deutsch
et eesti
el ελληνικά
en English
fr français
ga Gaeilge
hr hrvatski
it italiano
lv latviešu
lt lietuvių
hu magyar
mt Malti
nl Nederlands
pl polski
pt português
ro română
sk slovenčina
sl slovenščina
fi suomi
sv svenska
Other languages
ar العربية
ja 日本語
tr türkçe
uk yкраїнська
zh 中文
Search
Search
Taxation and Customs Union
Menu
Close
Menu
Back
Previous items Next items
Home
About us
Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union
Application of EU Law
EU funding for customs and tax
Transparency Portal
Events
Tenders and Grants
Glossary
Contact us
See all
Taxation
Value Added Tax (VAT)
Excise Duties
Business Taxation
Personal Taxation
Other taxes
Outermost regions
Tax Transparency and Cooperation
Economic Analysis
National Tax Administrations
EU Training
See all
Customs
Rules of origin for goods
Customs Controls
EU Training
Authorised Economic Operator (AEO)
Prohibitions and Restrictions
Customs Procedures for import and export
EU Customs Union: facts and figures
Union Customs code
Customs security
International affairs
National customs administrations
Electronic customs
See all
CBAM
CBAM archive
CBAM communication and news
CBAM definitive regime
CBAM legislation and guidance
CBAM Registry
CBAM sectors
Price of CBAM certificates
Verification of CBAM emissions
See all
Online services
Online services and databases for Customs
Online services and databases for Taxation
See all
News
Home
...
Taxation
Value Added Tax (VAT)
VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA)
VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA)
A package to modernise and improve the EU’s VAT system
VAT in the Digital Age
Package
Page contents
Page contents
The VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) package was adopted on 11 March 2025 following re-consultation of the European Parliament and will be rolled out progressively until January 2035.
Upon entry into force (14 April 2025), Member States are able to introduce mandatory e-invoicing under specific conditions, and improvements were made to the Import One-Stop-Shop (IOSS) framework to enhance the control tools.
Effective by 1 January 2027, minor legislative clarifications will impact users of the One-Stop Shop (OSS) and IOSS schemes. From July 1, 2028, platforms in short-term accommodation rental and passenger transport by road must comply with new deemed supplier measures, while the Single VAT Registration reforms and mandatory reverse charge for non-identified suppliers will start.
Digital Reporting Requirements will affect cross-border B2B transactions from 1 July 2030. By 1 January 2035, Member States with a domestic digital real-time transaction reporting obligation must align their systems with the EU model and standards, marking the final phase of this comprehensive ViDA package.
The ViDA package was published in the Official Journal of the European Union under the L-series on 25 March 2025.
Legal acts:
Directive - EU - 2025/516
Regulation - EU - 2025/517
Implementing regulation - EU - 2025/518
Real-time Digital Reporting Requirements (DRR)
The new system introduces real-time digital reporting for cross-border trade, based on e-invoicing. It will give Member States the valuable granular information they need to step up the fight against VAT fraud, especially carousel fraud.
The move to e-invoicing will help reduce VAT fraud by up to €11 billion a year and bring down administrative and compliance costs for EU traders by over €4.1 billion per year over the next ten years. It ensures that, in time, existing national systems converge across the EU and paves the way for EU countries that wish to introduce national digital reporting systems for domestic trade.
Updated rules for the platform economy
Under the new rules, platforms facilitating supplies in the passenger transport by road and short-term accommodation rental sectors will become responsible for collecting and remitting VAT to tax authorities when the suppliers using the platform do not, for example because they are a small business or individual providers.
Together with other clarifications, this will ensure a uniform approach across all EU countries and contribute to a more level playing field between online and traditional short-term accommodation rental services and passenger transport services by road. It will also simplify life for SMEs who currently need to understand and comply with the VAT rules, often in different EU countries.
Single VAT Registration (SVR)
Building on the already existing ‘VAT One Stop Shop’ (OSS) model for e-commerce, the new rules will allow more businesses selling to consumers in another EU country to fulfil their VAT obligations via an online portal in one EU country. The SVR part includes improvements to the OSS processes (e.g. new correction mechanism), improvements for control purposes (e.g., IOSS (Import One Stop Shop) additional information before import, IOSS monthly listings per Member State of consumption), introduced a transfer of own goods module and ensures alignments to new legislation and schemes (e.g., interplay with the SME scheme).
Latest news
28 Jul 2026
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2026/1869
The Regulation updates the detailed rules for the VAT special schemes and introduces the new transfer of own goods scheme under the Single VAT Registration (SVR) pillar of the ViDA package.
24 Jul 2026
Revised Explanatory Notes and OSS guidelines
Revised Explanatory Notes and OSS guidelines have been published on 24 July to reflect the changes as from 1 January 2027 introduced by the Single VAT Registration (SVR) pillar of the ViDA package.
13 May 2026
VAT in the Digital Age implementation – Work programme for 2026
The document provides an outline of the main activities that are tentatively planned under the current Multiannual Financial Framework in 2026 (and early 2027) for the implementation of ViDA
28 Oct 2025
Implementation Dialogue
On Tuesday 28 October, Commissioner Wopke Hoekstra hosted a strategic dialogue on the VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) package.
24 Sep 2025
Implementation Strategy
This implementation strategy sets out the actions that the Commission will deploy to support businesses and Member States with the implementation of the VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) package.
Background
11 Mar 2025
Adoption of the VAT in the Digital Age package
The VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) package has been adopted on 11 March 2025 following reconsultation of the European Parliament and will be rolled out progressively until January 2035.
08 Dec 2024
Proposal by the European Commission of the VAT in the Digital Age Package
On 8 December 2024, The Commission adopted its proposed VAT in the Digital Age (ViDA) reforms to modernise the European Union’s Value Added Tax (VAT) system and address the challenges posed by digitalisation.
Implementation
General publications 13 May 2026
VAT in the Digital Age implementation – Work programme for 2026
General publications 24 September 2025
Implementation Strategy - VAT in the Digital Age
Timeline VAT in the Digital Age
Text version
Immediately on entry into force of ViDA package: Member States can introduce obligatory e-invoicing under certain conditions. Improvements to Member States' controls of the Import One-Stop-Shop (IOSS)
From 1 January 2027: small clarifications impacting those using the One-Stop Shop schemes (OSS and IOSS).
From 1 July 2028: deemed supplier measure for short-term accommodation rental and passenger transport platforms (Member States can delay implementation until 1 January 2030). Single VAT Registration elements come into effect:
Extension of the OSS schemes
Mandatory reverse charge for non-identified suppliers
From 1 July 2030: digital Reporting Requirements measures coming into effect - main impact on businesses making cross border B2B supplies.
By 1 January 2035: deadline for aligning domestic digital real-time transaction-based reporting obligations with the EU system.
Related links
VAT Gap Report
Taxation and Customs Union
This site is managed by:
Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union
Bluesky
LinkedIn
YouTube
About us
Glossary
Newsletter
Related links
VAT e-Commerce - One Stop Shop
VAT rules for small enterprises – SME scheme
Have your say
Follow the European Commission
Mastodon
LinkedIn
Bluesky
Facebook
Youtube
Other
Contact us
Report an IT vulnerability
Languages on our websites
Cookies
Privacy policy
Legal notice
Accessibility
